Computers are not good at choosing random numbers.
Everything in a computer has been made to be predictable
and follow logical patterns.
You enter the same numbers
and gets the same numbers back.
However, that is a problem because all modern encryption,
including that lock in your browser
that says you're safe,
depends on large, actually random numbers.
If you can predict those numbers in one way or another,
then you can break those locks.
That's why I am here,
at the headquarters of Cloudflare, in San Francisco.
Cloudflase is a service that protects websites and web services
and before she sits as a sort of guard.
About 10% of the internet goes through the Cloudflare network.
Cloudflare was one of the first companies
that offered free SSL encryption for websites.
This ensures that the connection between your computer and the website you visit
fully encrypted and can not be listened to.
In short, they deal here with a lot of encrypted internet traffic,
that's why they need a lot of random songs.
It is possible to write code that simulates randomness,
and that's good enough for a lot of situations,
but theoretically, those numbers can be predicted.
They are still generated by code,
therefore, the servers here must have their randomness
fetching an external and completely unpredictable source.
A large amount of personal computers take the user as a source of randomness,
small variations in the movement of a mouse,
the exact time between pressing keys,
or on a telephone, for example, the speedometer or other sensors.
In all these cases the big parts are omitted,
the parts that can be influenced by people,
and they look at the small details,
the details that you can not precisely control,
even if you would like it.
But that kind of human interaction is not
enough for a system on this scale,
for this are these lava lamps.
We film these lava lamps and take the photos and videos,
and change it into a stream of random unpredictable data.
And this unpredictable data is what we use to generate the keys
encrypt the traffic that passes through the Cloudflare network.
~ NO KEY, BUT RANDOM DATES ~ This data is then put in our data centers
~ NO KEY, BUT RANDOM DATA ~ and then in a Linux kernel
it then used to seed the number generators
that are used to generate the keys.
Every time you take a photo with a camera
there is a kind of noise.
So it's not just where the bubbles are in the lava lamp,
it is the status of the air, the light in the room,
every small change has a big impact on the flow of data.
A cryptographic hash function is something we use
where if you have a photo and changed a single bit,
the entire flow of data changes.
So we use that for randomness
make great possible.
We also collect randomness in other places,
We have one thing in our London office
what is called a chaotic pendulum.
It consists of three arms and is unpredictable in it
the way they run together.
We film and carry it in our randomness source.
In our office in Singapore we have a radioactive source
which we also use in our randomness system.
It is not a kind of stunt we have performed,
it is actually used in our real systems.
Whether something in the world is actually random
is arguably a question for philosophy and not science.
Maybe everything is a complex clockwork.
But these lava lamps are so chaotic
that simulating the image on the camera with pixel perfect accuracy
far enough forward to be useful
and find out what editing is done on the images,
is about the same difficulty as brutality forcing in the first place.
And even if you can simulate all that
you would only have a piece in the puzzle.
The people here are not the first to do this.
"Lavarand" was patented by a company called Silicon Graphics in 1996,
but that only lasted a few years.
And of course there are less special and
more practical ways to generate random numbers,
but then I would not be here now.
I would then go to another company that
I know a lot, a camera focused on a basket of pussies.
That would actually cost more maintenance.